ZSock v2.3 - 1/6/2002
--------------------

Welcome to the latest release of ZSock - and the first in quite a long time,
this release is mainly concerned with bugs and stability.

For those unaware, ZSock is a TCP/IP stack for the z88, it is still
in the developmental phase and so it may not work quite as well for you as
it does for me..

ZSock v2.3 is distributed in the form of two applications: a ZSock
application which contains the ZSock kernel and simple controlling
application and a telnet application which contains the 'chat' client and
a tftpd package, the features of ZSock are:

- VT52 Terminal client
- Telnet client allowing access to any remote port/host
- Ping client
- Tftp daemon for transferring files
- Echo,quote and finger servers for testing purposes
- Forward and reverse name resolving via a remote nameservers
- Responds to ping and traceroute requests
- Chat client to enable automated dialup and connection to ISPs
- Full API available for programming of network based programs

Configuration
-------------
You can configure ZSock in two ways - either from within the
program or via a set of configuration files. The latter is
the preferred method (and saves a lot of typing!) You should
create the following plain text files:

:RAM.0/resolv.cfg

Which contains on line 1 your default domainname and on lines 2 & 3 
the IP addresses of the nameservers on your network

eg for my LAN:

suborbital
192.168.155.19

:RAM.0/hostname

Which contains on line one the hostname of your z88 and on line two the 
IP address of your z88, eg for my z88 this contains:

z88
192.168.155.88

Connecting to your LAN/dialing up your ISP
------------------------------------------

ZSock uses the SLIP protocol for connecting to the outside world,
only a few ISPs support this archaic protocol - check to see if yours
does.

Connection to a LAN:

Set Up a slip server on the machine which your z88 is connected to
(see man sliplogin etc etc, or an the Amiga do the following)

echo "serial.device 0 9600 0.0.0.0 MTU=576 7WIRE " >ENV:Sana2/slip0.config
ifconfig slip0 [amiga ip addy] [z88 ip addy] up
online slip0

Next go round your LAN setting up routing, for *nix boxes see man 1m route
for example on HP-UX 9 machines this should result in a line similar to:

% route add 192.168.155.88 [amiga ip] 1

Or on some linux boxes:

% route add 10.0.0.88 gw [amiga ip]

Or on a *BSD box:

% route add 192.168.155.88 -gateway [amiga ip]

Dialing up to ISP:

This can be achieved using the chat client which is a sub-application
within the telnet application. This will either read a file called
script.cht in the current directory/drive or will read filemail so you can
select a file from the filer and then enter the application. A sample
script.cht file is given in the telnet/ directory.

Important notes:

- Turn Xon/Xoff off from the z88 panel
- Set the MTU of the remote host to be something like 576 to avoid
fragmentation and lost packets.

Terminal Fun!
-------------

The terminal emulated by ZSock is of the VT52 type. This is a very simple
and easy to emulate terminal. However it does work with quite a few
programs providing you tell the remote host that your running (Zsock
doesn't yet pass the terminal type to the remote host when logging in) do
this with the following lines:

% setenv TERM vt52
% stty rows 8
% stty ocrnl

You can then use pico, emacs and lynx without too many problems. To use vi
you have to issue an stty -ocrnl before you use it - I'm not sure why but
nevermind. Yes! Since ZSock turned into an application vi now works
"properly"

Things to do
------------

I hope that ZSock is easy to use, but here are some non obvious
things to do should you feel like playing:
telnet to port 7 of a host to have an exciting conversation
telnet to port 13 of a host to find out it's local time
telnet to port 25 of an SMTP host to send mail
telnet to port 79 of a host to do a finger
telnet to port 80 of a host to read web pages
telnet to port 110 of a host to receive mail (POP3)
telnet to port 119 of a host to read/post news (*shudder*)
telnet to port 143 of a host to receive mail (IMAPv4)

If people have been careless telnet to ports 98 and 901 to sort out their
Linux/Samba2 configs

Lastly...telnet to port 139 Win95 box to crash it <grin>

Source Code
-----------

IS SUPPLIED IN THE ARCHIVE.


The Future
----------

Several things I would like to do:

- Add IP defragmentation - this would take place in a separate package due
to lack of memory in the ZSock kernel (I've got about 500 bytes free!)

- Work on PPP support (get it working...)

- Garry Lancaster is working on Webby

- I'm working on a simple mail client 

If you want to port ZSock to a different machine then please let
me know and we'll try to work together on it.

ZSock has been "ported" to a Linux machine (where most of the debugging
took place) and works quite happily - I've dragged 60k/sec out of the
httpd server - though since it does a polling read it does suck up
CPU somewhat.

Similarly, it works under CPM using a modified ZXCC.


Licencing
---------

I've decided to place ZSock under a BSD-style licence. Having said that
I'd appreciate any bugfixes to the code.



Acknowledgements
----------------

ZSock contains code and ideas derived from:

- Erick Engelka's Waterloo TCP
- Joost ??? MSX TCP project (project now dead)
- Berkeley TCP/IP implementation

Enjoy ZSock...

dom <dom@jadara.org.uk>
1/6/2002

History
-------

v2.3	      TCP layer debugged, with hopefully only one outstanding
	      problem - resizing the incoming window - this isn't done
	      at all.

v2.2 	      It was a long, long time ago since I last updated this
              file! Many changes made, not least in the fact we have a
working API and most things seem to be bugfixed. The change between this
releas r13 and r12 is that udp_close now works and I've included a cheap
chat client. 

v2.0b9app     Fixed problems with tcp daemons barfing when
              being called (Weird one!)
              Sped up terminal, made compatible with Dennis
              Groening's z88 termcap
              [Problem] Connection to by HP box barfs badly
              for telnet..I'm current stupified..but releasing
              anyway since this release fixes a few stupid
              things
              [Problem] Still can't tag into the interrupt
              chain on the z88

v2.0b8app     First application release

